Now that we had a detailed look at 2D transformations, which to be honest are the transformations you'll
probably use the most often,
let's have a look at 3D transformations now. For this, attached to this video,
you'll find a very simple, prepared, demo theory project where we just got a red box in a container with
a black border,
this is the markup code for it.
Now I want you transform this box in a three dimensional way
and for that, we still use the transform property
but now, let's for example look into rotating this again
but now not around the z-axis
but actually around the different axis because the axis will become important here.
If we have a look at the three axes we have, we got X, Y and Z, how can we then rotate elements around
these? We can rotate an element around the x-axis with rotateX and now the important part here is the
axis will be in the center of this element,
at least if transform origin and is set to center and it spins itself around this x-axis.
So here, this will actually rotate the element towards or away from you so to say. For Y, it also rotates
around the y-axis, so it spins around that y-axis,
this is how you can think about that.
And for Z, it spins around the z-axis
but the z-axis kind of pierces the element coming from the back and going through the middle of
it,
this is why this leads to a 2D transformation even though you might think that for Z, it should
be highly three dimensional because that z-axis is that third dimension
but if you keep in mind that that axis kind of pierces the element and the element spins around that axis,
then it makes way more sense.
So rotateY and X are actually the two functions that we can use to create 3D rotations. For other functions,
it's different but for rotate, this is how it is,
so let's use them. Back in our project,
let's use rotateX for example on the box and let's enter 30 degrees here.
If we save that, let's reload our page,
now it looks like as if the box simply shrank
but what's actually happening here is it's becoming smaller because it's rotating towards you.
Now this becomes even clearer if we enter a value, like animate, some text into that box.
Let's give that text a white color, font family sans-serif simply because it doesn't look as ugly and
let's align it in the center, at least horizontally.
Now if we reload, we got animate here as a text,
now this becomes even clearer if we actually increase the rotation to let's say 80 degree.
Now this is almost invisible
and if we increase this to 90 degree, it's totally invisible simply because it's now right at the point
where it's about to flip on that x-axis.
So if we enter 100 degrees here, then it just flipped which is the reason why animate is now at the bottom,
it flipped around the axis now.
This should prove that we're talking about a 3D transformation here.
So now with that, we get a basic 3D transformation,
let's now also add rotateY and let's set this to 30 degrees for example.
Now we're also rotating around the y-axis, which is the reason why if you reload, it looks like that,
now it's rotating towards you and around the y-axis.
Now this effect becomes clearer if we reset rotateX to 0 degrees for now, so that we get no X rotation.
Now you can see, it's again looking a bit squeezed here,
if we increase rotateY to 80 degrees,
so right before it flips,
now you see it's almost impossible to read because now it's almost rotated around the y-axis.
Now right now, we're always looking at this from the same distance,
you can actually change this.